you're an incredible game designer
world renowned for devising ingenious gameplay mechanics

your games are simple to learn
but the gameplay is mind-blowing!
people love your games

strangely, the game engine is running and can be used for free, but no one is using it
this is where you step in

your task is to design games
the games feature incredibly unique, innovative and compelling gameplay mechanics
the game engine already exists
in fact it's been running for years
it's incredibly reliable and battle-tested
it's globally distributed and support billions of simultaneous players
it's free!

strangely, no one has been insane enough to build a game using it

the game engine is github's rest api

it has a resource model, api request rate limits
it provides an authentication service
it provides global read-only time synchronised shared immutable state, through git commit histories

there are surely more i didn't think of

design incredible new gameplay mechanics
player ip address changes with movement in real life
player ip address can be quickly toggled on mobile by switching from wifi to cellular
player ip address can changed with another person's help (friend, foe or stranger), through use of hot spotting - fun! now the players are binded by ip address!
most gameplay should happen with unauthenticated requests - they're always free and don't need a sign up - but authenticated requests could provide a fun element
there may be something really cool possible with git, time and its content-addressed immutable database
can this be used to implement betting on future events, the outcome verified by future commit hash?
or shared randomness model based on a time-ordered sequence of commit hashes?
that way a player were to "buy some stocks", its seemingly random performance in the game
could be simulated with git commit history data

think of more! and think of new takes on common tropes

so, design an incredible game based on the github rest api rate limit model!
do consider games with a multiplayer, social, or real life tie-in element, as these are likely to be more enjoyable

generate three high-level summaries of game designs - single or multiplayer

here's an example of a good idea:
Alright, let’s dive into designing an amazing web game based on GitHub’s REST API rate limit model! Since the game will run on a website and use visitors’ own API requests tied to their IP addresses, we’ve got a unique opportunity to create something dynamic, immersive, and endlessly replayable. The rate limit mechanics—60 requests per hour for unauthenticated users, 5,000 or even 15,000 for authenticated ones, and various scaling limits for apps—will be the heartbeat of the game. I’ve cooked up a fresh, creative concept that goes beyond violence and taps into strategy, emotion, and progression. Let’s get into it!
Game Concept: "Code Cosmos"
Theme:
You’re a cosmic architect in a vast, ever-expanding universe of code. Your mission? Build breathtaking planetary systems using GitHub API requests as your cosmic energy. Each request powers an action—forming stars, crafting planets, or nurturing alien civilizations. But your energy is finite, governed by the GitHub rate limit tied to your IP. It’s a game of creation, balance, and discovery, where every choice shapes your universe.
Core Idea:
Think of it as a celestial sandbox meets resource management. The API rate limit becomes your "cosmic energy reserve," replenished hourly (or faster with upgrades). Players craft their own galaxies, unlock new abilities, and face challenges—all while managing their precious requests. The IP-based limit means your experience shifts depending on where you play, and cookies save your progress for a journey that spans sessions.
Gameplay Mechanics
1. Cosmic Energy (API Requests)
Unauthenticated Players: Start with 60 units of cosmic energy per hour (mirroring the 60 requests/hour limit).
Authenticated Players: Unlock 5,000 units/hour with a “personal stardust token” (a nod to personal access tokens). If you’re fancy with GitHub Enterprise Cloud, you could snag 15,000 units!
Energy Usage: Every action—like spawning a star, orbiting a planet, or evolving life—consumes energy (e.g., 1 request = 1 energy unit). Bigger actions cost more.
Depletion: Run out of energy? Your galaxy pauses until the hourly reset (tracked via the x-ratelimit-reset header). This creates tension and strategy—do you go big now or pace yourself?
2. Building Your Galaxy
Stars: The foundation of your system. Spawning a basic star costs 5 energy. Brighter, hotter stars cost more but unlock advanced planets.
Planets: Orbit your stars. Rocky planets (10 energy), gas giants (20 energy), or habitable worlds (30 energy) each offer unique rewards.
Civilizations: Nurture life on habitable planets (50 energy to start). As they grow, they generate “stardust” (points) passively—but evolving them further costs more energy.
3. Progression & Upgrades
Stardust: Earned from civilizations or rare cosmic events. Spend it on upgrades like:
Efficient Creation: Reduce energy costs (e.g., planets now cost 8 instead of 10).
Energy Amplifiers: Mimic authentication upgrades—boost your hourly limit from 60 to 500, then 5,000, etc.
Automation: Civilizations work while you’re offline, banking stardust based on your last session’s setup.
Milestones: Build 5 stars, 10 planets, or a thriving civilization to unlock new galaxy types (nebulae, black holes) with unique mechanics.
4. Challenges & Events
Cosmic Storms: Random events that drain energy faster (secondary rate limits kicking in). Survive by optimizing your actions.
Rival Architects: Other players’ galaxies (anonymized, IP-based) appear as distant systems. Send a “probe” (10 energy) to steal a small amount of stardust—unless they’ve fortified their defenses!
Collapse Risk: Overuse energy too quickly, and a star might go supernova, wiping out nearby planets. Teaches pacing and mirrors rate limit bans.
5. IP-Based Dynamics
Since limits are tied to your IP, playing from home, work, or a coffee shop changes your energy pool. Move to a new IP? Your galaxy stays (via cookies), but your energy resets—encouraging strategic play across locations.
Why It’s Fun
Creativity: You’re not just shooting or fighting—you’re building. Every galaxy is a unique masterpiece reflecting your choices.
Strategy: Balance short-term beauty (a dazzling star) with long-term growth (a thriving civilization). The rate limit forces tough, meaningful decisions.
Emotion: Watching your first planet bloom with life or surviving a cosmic storm feels rewarding. It’s serene yet tense—like tending a cosmic garden.
Endless Play: No “game over.” Your galaxy evolves over days, weeks, or months, saved via cookies. Pop in anytime to tweak it.
Social Twist: Seeing rival galaxies adds a subtle competitive edge without breaking the chill vibe.
Technical Implementation
API Integration: Use the GitHub REST API’s GET /rate_limit endpoint to track the player’s limit (x-ratelimit-remaining, x-ratelimit-reset). Each game action triggers a lightweight API call (e.g., fetching public repo data) to burn a request.
Frontend: A gorgeous, canvas-based UI with twinkling stars, swirling planets, and glowing civilizations. Think Stellaris meets Spore, but browser-friendly.
State Management: Cookies store your galaxy’s setup (stars, planets, upgrades). Energy resets hourly, synced with GitHub’s headers.
Scalability: For unauthenticated players, IP limits are shared across sessions. Authenticated players could log in via OAuth for higher limits and personal flair.
Emotional Hook
This isn’t just a game—it’s a metaphor. You’re a creator wrestling with finite resources, much like devs IRL managing API calls. There’s awe in watching your galaxy grow, frustration when energy runs dry, and triumph when you unlock a new tier. It’s meditative yet purposeful, appealing to dreamers and strategists alike.
Why It Stands Out
Unlike a shooter where you blast through limits, Code Cosmos turns the rate limit into a canvas for imagination. It’s not about hitting a cap and waiting—it’s about what you do with what you’ve got. The best game designers—like those behind Civilization or SimCity—thrive on constraints. Here, the GitHub API is our constraint, and the universe is our playground.
So, crack that scotch, light that spliff, and imagine: a web game where every visitor, from any IP, crafts a corner of the cosmos—one request at a time. Godspeed, indeed! Let me know if you want to flesh this out further!

don't limit yourself to this idea though, be extremely creative

here's github's rest api rate limit documentation:

Rate limits for the REST API
Learn about REST API rate limits, how to avoid exceeding them, and what to do if you do exceed them.
In this article
About primary rate limits
About secondary rate limits
Checking the status of your rate limit
Exceeding the rate limit
Staying under the rate limit
Getting a higher rate limit
About primary rate limits

GitHub limits the number of REST API requests that you can make within a specific amount of time. This limit helps prevent abuse and denial-of-service attacks, and ensures that the API remains available for all users.

Some endpoints, like the search endpoints, have more restrictive limits. For more information about these endpoints, see REST API endpoints for rate limits. The GraphQL API also has a separate primary rate limit. See Rate limits and node limits for the GraphQL API.

In general, you can calculate your primary rate limit for the REST API based on your method of authentication, as described below.

Primary rate limit for unauthenticated users

You can make unauthenticated requests if you are only fetching public data. Unauthenticated requests are associated with the originating IP address, not with the user or application that made the request.

The primary rate limit for unauthenticated requests is 60 requests per hour.

Primary rate limit for authenticated users

You can use a personal access token to make API requests. Additionally, you can authorize a GitHub App or OAuth app, which can then make API requests on your behalf.

All of these requests count towards your personal rate limit of 5,000 requests per hour. Requests made on your behalf by a GitHub App that is owned by a GitHub Enterprise Cloud organization have a higher rate limit of 15,000 requests per hour. Similarly, requests made on your behalf by a OAuth app that is owned or approved by a GitHub Enterprise Cloud organization have a higher rate limit of 15,000 requests per hour if you are a member of the GitHub Enterprise Cloud organization.

Primary rate limit for GitHub App installations

GitHub Apps authenticating with an installation access token use the installation's minimum rate limit of 5,000 requests per hour. If the installation is on a GitHub Enterprise Cloud organization, the installation has a rate limit of 15,000 requests per hour.

For installations that are not on a GitHub Enterprise Cloud organization, the rate limit for the installation will scale with the number of users and repositories. Installations that have more than 20 repositories receive another 50 requests per hour for each repository. Installations that are on an organization that have more than 20 users receive another 50 requests per hour for each user. The rate limit cannot increase beyond 12,500 requests per hour.

Primary rate limits for GitHub App user access tokens (as opposed to installation access tokens) are dictated by the primary rate limits for the authenticated user. This rate limit is combined with any requests that another GitHub App or OAuth app makes on that user's behalf and any requests that the user makes with a personal access token. See Primary rate limit for authenticated users.

Primary rate limit for OAuth apps

Primary rate limits for OAuth access tokens generated by a OAuth app are dictated by the primary rate limits for authenticated users. This rate limit is combined with any requests that another GitHub App or OAuth app makes on that user's behalf and any requests that the user makes with a personal access token. See Primary rate limit for authenticated users.

OAuth apps can also use their client ID and client secret to fetch public data. For example:

curl -u YOUR_CLIENT_ID:YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET -I https://api.github.com/meta
For these requests, the rate limit is 5,000 requests per hour per OAuth app. If the app is owned by a GitHub Enterprise Cloud organization, the rate limit is 15,000 requests per hour.

Note

Never include your app's client secret in client-side code or in code that runs on a user device. The client secret can be used to generate OAuth access tokens for users who have authorized your app, so you should always keep the client secret secure.
Primary rate limit for GITHUB_TOKEN in GitHub Actions

You can use the built-in GITHUB_TOKEN to authenticate requests in GitHub Actions workflows. See Automatic token authentication.

The rate limit for GITHUB_TOKEN is 1,000 requests per hour per repository. For requests to resources that belong to a GitHub Enterprise Cloud account, the limit is 15,000 requests per hour per repository.

About secondary rate limits

In addition to primary rate limits, GitHub enforces secondary rate limits in order to prevent abuse and keep the API available for all users.

You may encounter a secondary rate limit if you:

Make too many concurrent requests. No more than 100 concurrent requests are allowed. This limit is shared across the REST API and GraphQL API.
Make too many requests to a single endpoint per minute. No more than 900 points per minute are allowed for REST API endpoints, and no more than 2,000 points per minute are allowed for the GraphQL API endpoint. For more information about points, see Calculating points for the secondary rate limit.
Make too many requests per minute. No more than 90 seconds of CPU time per 60 seconds of real time is allowed. No more than 60 seconds of this CPU time may be for the GraphQL API. You can roughly estimate the CPU time by measuring the total response time for your API requests.
Make too many requests that consume excessive compute resources in a short period of time.
Create too much content on GitHub in a short amount of time. In general, no more than 80 content-generating requests per minute and no more than 500 content-generating requests per hour are allowed. Some endpoints have lower content creation limits. Content creation limits include actions taken on the GitHub web interface as well as via the REST API and GraphQL API.
These secondary rate limits are subject to change without notice. You may also encounter a secondary rate limit for undisclosed reasons.

Calculating points for the secondary rate limit

Some secondary rate limits are determined by the point values of requests. For GraphQL requests, these point values are separate from the point value calculations for the primary rate limit.

Request	Points
GraphQL requests without mutations	1
GraphQL requests with mutations	5
Most REST API GET, HEAD, and OPTIONS requests	1
Most REST API POST, PATCH, PUT, or DELETE requests	5
Some REST API endpoints have a different point cost that is not shared publicly.

Checking the status of your rate limit

You can use the headers that are sent with each response to determine the current status of your primary rate limit.

Header name	Description
x-ratelimit-limit	The maximum number of requests that you can make per hour
x-ratelimit-remaining	The number of requests remaining in the current rate limit window
x-ratelimit-used	The number of requests you have made in the current rate limit window
x-ratelimit-reset	The time at which the current rate limit window resets, in UTC epoch seconds
x-ratelimit-resource	The rate limit resource that the request counted against. For more information about the different resources, see REST API endpoints for rate limits.
You can also call the GET /rate_limit endpoint to check your rate limit. Calling this endpoint does not count against your primary rate limit, but it can count against your secondary rate limit. See REST API endpoints for rate limits. When possible, you should use the rate limit response headers instead of calling the API to check your rate limit.

There is not a way to check the status of your secondary rate limit.

Exceeding the rate limit

If you exceed your primary rate limit, you will receive a 403 or 429 response, and the x-ratelimit-remaining header will be 0. You should not retry your request until after the time specified by the x-ratelimit-reset header.

If you exceed a secondary rate limit, you will receive a 403 or 429 response and an error message that indicates that you exceeded a secondary rate limit. If the retry-after response header is present, you should not retry your request until after that many seconds has elapsed. If the x-ratelimit-remaining header is 0, you should not retry your request until after the time, in UTC epoch seconds, specified by the x-ratelimit-reset header. Otherwise, wait for at least one minute before retrying. If your request continues to fail due to a secondary rate limit, wait for an exponentially increasing amount of time between retries, and throw an error after a specific number of retries.

Continuing to make requests while you are rate limited may result in the banning of your integration.

Staying under the rate limit

You should follow best practices to help you stay under the rate limits. See Best practices for using the REST API.

Getting a higher rate limit

If you want a higher primary rate limit, consider making authenticated requests instead of unauthenticated requests. Authenticated requests have a significantly higher rate limit than unauthenticated requests.

If you are using a personal access token for automation in your organization, consider whether a GitHub App will work instead. The rate limit for GitHub Apps using an installation access token scales with the number of repositories and number of organization users. See About creating GitHub Apps.

If you are using GitHub Apps or OAuth apps, consider upgrading to GitHub Enterprise Cloud. GitHub Apps or OAuth apps have higher rate limits for organizations that use GitHub Enterprise Cloud.
